I've checked. and I'm sure. Harry.
The son?
He is our serial killer.
Okay.
Thank you. Beate.
His name is Martin Aminov.
Forty-three. Norwegian citizen. living
in Prague. has a sentence for smuggling.
He has given his mom a diamond identical
to the ones we've found on the victims.
According to his mom. he's been
in Oslo to visit her on all of the dates.
At Villa Valle.
His mother?
She lives under the fifth point.
and she's expecting him tonight.
Backup is already on their way.
and my car is parked over there.
No. wait. wait. wait!
Sit down. No one does anything
until I say so.
Stop the car that's going there.
I don't want a single police car
within one kilometer of that house.
If he gets a whiff of trouble.
we won't get a second chance.
Falkeid. you and your men stay here
until I give you a different command.
- You said--
- I'm the one in charge!
It's on my head if something goes wrong.
That's why I want to deal with it
on my own. Is that understood?
Harry. you stay here and take command.
Hey. Hole. We're on our way
to Villa Valle now.
- Abort backup.
- Abort?
- Waaler will deal with it alone.
- But we're five minutes away--
Just do it.
Alpha to all units. stand by.
Are you armed?
On this mission we are.
Did he mention when he was coming?
Well. he wanted
to take care of something first. he said.
Does he have a key to the front door?
I don't lock the door
when I know he's coming.
Isn't the door locked?
No.
You can lower it now.
Hi.
Mrs. Aminov.
Where's the rest?
It's just you and me.
What do you think you're doing?
What do you mean?
You're standing by the window.
- Oh...
- How long have you been standing there?
Fucking amateur. Into the kitchen.
Into the kitchen.
Stay here. no matter what happens.
Is that understood?
What's that?
Fourth floor. third door on the right.
Oh. fuck...
Falkeid. get your team ready to enter 406.
Charlie 2 responding.
Prepare to enter apartment 406.
Hole is on his way now.
Roger.
Give me a gun.
BACK IN FOUR WEEKS
JULY 7TH - MARIUS
- Clear.
- Clear!
Fuck...
Why do you think it's here. Harry?
Because this is the fifth floor.
Hole?
Yes. Harry?
We were wrong. We found Marius Veland
vacuum sealed in the attic.
He wasn't the next victim.
he was the first.
Aminov started with the thumb
and worked his way down the hand.
Now. there's only the little finger left.
And he's on his way here.
Why is only Waaler here
and not the whole fucking team?
He said that he was worried
we'd scare him off.
He told me to stay here
the same way he told you to stay there.
Harry. what the fuck is going on?
I don't know.
Hey...
Be careful.
I have to go back inside.
Police!
Drop the gun!
I said. drop the gun!
Final warning! Drop the gun!
Tom. what the fuck are you doing?
He's unarmed.
He's unarmed because I disarmed him.
Cuff him!
Stand against the wall! Put down the bag.
Put down the bag!
[Swedish]
I'm on my way back. Back to my uterus.
There I'll lift the knife
and cut my way in.
Fuck me. what a fucking lunatic.
Aminov is an ex-convict. right?
Mm.
Fingerprints?
We don't have the results yet.
Has Martin Aminov confessed?
The suspect has just been through
initial questioning. so it's a process.
Detective Tom Waaler here
is the one who's talking to him.
As you know. this type of interrogation
is a mix of facts and building trust.
Until he's finished. I don't have answers.
Did you find weapons
and diamonds in Aminov's bag.
and are the diamonds identical
to those on the victims?
- Yes. I can confirm that.
- VG' s turn.
Is it true that the body was
vacuum sealed when you found him?
I can't comment on that.
But you can confirm that it is the
Bike Courier Killer you have arrested?
Unfortunately. I cannot confirm any more
than what I've already told you.
But are you happy that the hunt is over?
We don't reply to trick questions.
Dagbladet's turn.
Is it true that the arrest conducted
by Tom Waaler was quite a dramatic one?
I mean. dramatic... I simply did my job.
Do you know if he'd planned to kill again?
Well. it's hard to say.
but of course it's possible.
Holy shit. He'll be a celebrity now.
The man who... led the investigation
and arrested the Bike Courier Killer
all on his own.
We've found fingerprints
in Marius Veland's apartment
matching the TV shop
and Camilla Loen's apartment.
and now we've found the same prints
in Lisbeth Barli's stairway.
Matching Martin Aminov's?
No. That's the crazy part.
It belongs to Veland.
So he's been bringing the thumb
to all the different crime scenes?
Yeah. clearly.
Yeah.
It's elegant.
Yeah. it's certainly elegant.
Some of us are going to Boxer
to celebrate. Are you coming?
Yes.
Are you coming?
No. I've celebrated enough for a lifetime.
Besides. I'm not on the team anymore.
What?
Today is my last day.
What the fuck are you going to do now?
Something else.
Something completely different.
The summer I turned 20.
I went down to Strömstad
to see my best friend Solo.
And then we stole his dad's car
and came here. to Oslo.
We were totally broke.
So we couldn't afford a hotel.
so we slept in the park in sleeping bags.
We walked along Karl Johan Street
during the day. looking at girls.
I lost my virginity in that sleeping bag.
I think that's when I decided
that this was my city.
We were 20. but...
it felt like we had it all.
Marius Veland. Barbara Svendsen.
Camilla Loen. Lisbeth Barli.
They were in their 20s when they died.
They hadn't been truly disappointed yet.
I just spoke to Aminov.
He's a cold. intelligent bastard.
He'll claim insanity. so he won't go
to jail. but to a psych ward.
There. he'll have progress.
A few years later. he'll be discharged.
That's how things are now. We...
don't tidy up the human garbage.
we just skirt around it. put it
in the corner. brush it under the carpet.
And then. we're surprised
when the whole house stinks
like an infected rat's nest.
Someone has to clean up the shit
so that everybody else can breathe freely.
Do you get me?
So far.
So that is what we do.
We take responsibility.
Your first mission has been determined.
If you can do this...
all your problems will be solved.
Your job. everything.
But... what do you mean?
Aminov.
He's garbage.
He must go.
KGB developed it.
It's mostly known as
what Chechen soldiers used
when captured
and looking to kill themselves.
It breaks down the cell walls.
you bleed from every orifice.
and then you bleed to death in seconds.
Tasteless. One ampoule in a glass.
So it's supposed to look like a suicide?
We've realized you have
to bend and break the law
to protect society at large.
Aminov will be in custody
until midnight tomorrow.
Then. he'll be moved.
They know that you're coming.
Right.
Good luck.
Mom!
Harry's brought flowers!
I'm coming.
You're beautiful.
Yeah. so...
Sorry. I...
Thank you.
- Should we put these in water?
- Yes. you should do that.
Was it a bit much to bring flowers?
- Maybe.
Hi. Harry.
Harry. Maya Ek. Aftenposten.
We're asking people what they think
about the man
kidnapping Barli being caught.
No. thank you.
I actually wanted to ask you
about something else.
Really quick. You...
As a police officer. you've worked
with Tom Waaler for years. Is that so?
I'm not police anymore.
I see. But why...
Can you say anything about Tom?
Hey. just wait a second.
Do you have a business card?
You can reach me anytime.
- Anytime.
- Thank you.
What was that about you not being
a police officer anymore?
My last day at work was yesterday.
But what...
What are you going to do now?
Something else.
Ladies and gentlemen.
- Time for theater.
- The show begins in five minutes.
Please find your seats.
So you think that Pygmalion is about
you ultimately not understanding
why you love somebody?
Well. now you've made me
sound very simple.
- That is what you said.
- Yeah.
Yeah. I'm not very good at theater.
Yeah...
I've received an offer.
So I've agreed
to become a partner in the firm.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
- Was that the thing you wanted to tell me?
- No.
Oleg told me
that he stole that bottle of wine.
And that you picked him up
and brought him home.
And then. he told me
about the bet you made.
The one about him never...
never drinking again...
if you didn't either.
He's grown to love you.
Like... really love you.
And I know that...
That the odds are terrible.
But I'll join you on that bet.
Well... if you want me to.
I love you.
And you love me.
Yes.
I love you.
I know.
Let's go inside.
Hey...
I just have one last thing I need to do.
- At work.
- That's okay.
I'll leave the door unlocked.
No. don't do that.
Um... keep it locked.
For tonight.
Hey. it's me. Can you hit "record"?
Good evening. Aminov.
I'm Detective Hole.
Could you... give me your hands?
Would you like one?
Is this your "good cop" trick?
Yes.
You seem very calm for a man
who's been arrested for four murders.
I'm innocent.
We found a diamond that is identical
to those that were found on the bodies.
We also found a Ceska zbrojovka.
which is the same weapon
that was used to kill Barbara Svendsen.
You've said that you were in Prague
on the dates of the murders.
We've checked. You've made a quick stop
in Oslo on each of those dates.
So. how are your alibis
around five o'clock those dates. really?
Didn't think so.
Anything else?
The guns we found in your suitcase
had the same file marks
as practically all unregistered guns
we've got in this city.
It's almost as if... some kind
of smuggling ring was behind it.
Interesting theory.
Are you smuggling guns for Waaler?
Are the police doing
that sort of stuff too?
When Waaler arrested you. he had two guns.
A service gun
and what he says was your Ceska.
But you were unarmed. isn't that right?
Hi. Martin.
Hi. Tom. What are you doing here?
What the fuck?
Tom. stop it.
What's going on?
Police!
When I told him the Bike Courier
Killer's name was Martin Aminov...
he was terrified.
He wasn't afraid
another murder would happen.
He was afraid of you.
You know him.
You're one of his runners.
Tom Waaler knows that if you get charged
with the murders that you have committed.
you will do everything you can
to make some sort of deal.
You will tell everything
about him and the network.
So it's a much better idea
to simply shoot you.
You don't believe me.
Do you think that Tom Waaler
will save you from this?
Like some sort of reward
for your collaboration?
Or do think you have so much on him
that you can pressure him into helping?
I thought you were a smart guy.
You've been one step
ahead of us this whole time.
and you can't even see how Waaler thinks.
You're right. I don't believe you.
Hey. how...
How was the water?
It tastes like water.
Right.
It's empty.
Bon appétit.
What?
Compliments of Tom Waaler.
Who do you think arranged
for you to stay here unguarded?
You should have been
in a high security prison.
Instead. you're here.
in an ordinary holding cell.
Where anyone with a regular police ID
can get in and out.
just as they please.
I want to make a deal with you.
If you take one of these within
the first ten minutes of a Joseph's.
you have a pretty good chance of survival.
I want you to testify against Waaler.
Yes. I promise. Give it to me.
- Can I trust you?
- Yes!
How do I know that?
I need you to convince me.
do you get that?
Fine.
Preferably before you bleed to death.
Have you ever seen someone
die from that before?
First. they shit themselves.
then blood pours out of every orifice.
even the eyes.
Yes. okay.
You can trust me because it's logical.
If I don't die. Waaler will see
that I've turned against him.
Then. there's no turning back for me.
Either he has to take me out.
or I him. I have no choice.
Okay. keep going.
If I stay in here. I won't stand a chance.
Even if you give me that pill.
someone else will finish the job.
The only way I can survive
is for Waaler to be exposed and arrested.
And you are the only one
who can help me do that right now.
- Good. Congratulations.
- Yeah.
- Get up. turn around.
- Give me the pill.
- No. we're leaving.
- Give me the pill. for fuck's sake!
This is just Flunipam. Sleeping pills.
Come on. get up.
I wouldn't worry too much.
I poured out the contents
of that capsule in the sink. so...
if the water had a funny taste.
take it up with Oslo's Water Department.
What's going on here?
The detainee from 105 is going
to be interrogated on the sixth floor.
Where do I sign him out?
I haven't heard about that.
No. but I don't think we usually
tell you guys about that. Groth.
Hey. relax.
It's just a small change in the plans. He...
He doesn't want to take his medicine.
so we're doing something different.
I have no idea what you're talking about.
No.
Right.
If you have no further questions.
I suggest that you just take out your log.
so that I can sign it.
Brother.
Hello?
It's Groth. I've tried calling you.
Yeah. but I've been working out.
Listen. something's happened here
with that detainee.
Hole came here
to pick him up for an interrogation.
Shit!
Why are you constantly checking the time?
To see when they start pursuing us.
When does that start?
It just started.
Hi.
- Jesus...
- Excuse me.
What do you want?
I just want...
I just wanted to say thank you.
For what?
For that diamond.
Thank you.
POLICE
Beate Lønn.
Hi! I'm sorry if I woke you up. Beate.
This is Maria Aminov calling.
I was just wondering about Martin.
- Yes?
- When do you think I can go see him?
That is very difficult for me to say. but
let me check if and when it's possible.
and I'll call you back
early tomorrow morning.
There's another thing.
It's probably nothing...
I'm worried about my tenant Ina.
She's not been home for days. and...
You have a tenant?
I may have forgotten to say.
She's in the maid's room.
It's on the other side of the back room.
She's not been here for several days.
But...
Where? With whom?
That's what I'd like to know.
I've not met him yet.
She just said
that they were going to his cabin.
Yes?
Hole tricked us.
He took Aminov and disappeared.
This is a big problem. Prince.
And for now. it's your problem.
How are you planning to solve this?
He's a cop.
I have no idea how far I should take this.
At the moment.
you don't have that many options. do you?
I've spoken to the leader.
You are to take out both.
Could you repeat that?
We want you to kill Harry Hole.
Hi. it's me.
I've just spoken with the boss.
We've got a job to finish.
Subtitle translation by: Trine Friis